==========
Federation
==========

JaikuEngine wants you to be able to communicate with people you know, whether
they be Human, Klingon, Cardassian or Ferengi. This means we gots to know how 
to peacefully interact with other sites, and for that we need to establish 
some protocols as to how to communicate as well as how to represent foreign 
nationals participating in our delicious union.

Foreign Nationals, A Short Bill of Rights
=========================================

  1. The Foreign National is authoritative over their content. To the extent 
     that the content is duplicated on a remote site it should always include
     a link to the authoritative version.
  2. The Foreign National is authoritative over their profile. Any
     representation of the Foreign National should be minimal and defer
     to the authoritative version. 
  3. A Foreign National should be able to delete their content. Upon receiving
     a deletion request in some form from the authoritative site, the content
     should be removed.


Representing a Foreign National in JaikuEngine
==============================================

Foreign Nationals are represented in the JaikuEngine infrastructure as a
shortnick@foreign_nation, for example awesome_dude@term.ie. 

Upon establishing a presence on JaikuEngine a Foreign National will look a 
little something like this:

-insert foreign national diagram-

"""
Actor [awesome_dude@term.ie, remote_url = 'http://...']
Stream [presence]
Stream [comments]
Relation [awesome_dude@term.ie, 'authoritative_url', 'http://...']

When writing posts, a Foreign National's posts will not be written to the
standard inboxes of 'overview,' 'public,' 'contacts,' and 'private,', instead
they will only be written to the appropriate subscriber's overview.

A Foreign National has no profile page, profile links go directly to the 
Foreign site.


Discovering a Foreign National's Governing Body
===============================================

Imagine a galaxy where all races and species spoke the same language, perhaps
some only spoke a small subset of this common language but enough to get by,
and their respective governing parties had come to an agreement by which
anybody, anywhere in the galaxy could be easily addressed in a single, 
universally unique way. Wouldn't that be nice?

Instead we've got the web, everybody's got a million bits of identity floating
around, some people think that some site is just. the. thing. and choose to
identify themselves through that, others choose different names for every
place they go. So, comrades, what do we do?

--------------------
Use an Email Address
--------------------

We've all got them, you probably have one for anybody you know, so it seems
like a pretty reasonable way to try to find somebody. Using an email address,
or at least something that looks a lot like one, as a basis we're going to
try to gracefully fall through a variety of techniques to get to the person
or machine you're looking for.

Wishful Thinking
----------------

Maybe that other site already knows about people like us and wants to publish
totally sweet interfaces for us to hang out with. The remote service already
implements one or more of a variety of methods by which we can locate a user,
most of which will consist of a pattern similar to:

 1. Fetch the base url for the domain and look for a <link /> tag, or fetch
    a specific url at that domain where we expect a more useful interface or
    set of information to be provided.
 2. Using information provided at that new url or over that interface attempt
    to locate a profile page and a subscription endpoint.
 3. From that profile page attempt to glean enough information to display
    to the user so that she will be able to make an accurate decision as to
    whether this was indeed the person she intended to subscribe to.
 4. Assuming that it was the person she is subscribing to, make an appropriate
    subscription request based on the subscription endpoint and interface
    provided.

In most cases one will expect the site doing the subscribing to be in some
way authenticated, approaches to that will range from pre-established trust
relationships via some private key or OAuth to on-the-fly trust based on SSL
certificates or OAuth RSA. JaikuEngine will strive to support any reasonable
method being used.

Educated Guesses
----------------

In the cases of larger sites it may that they simply don't do things quite
well enough to make it through all four of the steps above without already
knowing a few things about how the site works. In those cases where it seems
important to do so, JaikuEngine should attempt to implement a solution 
tailored to the specific site.

Worst Case
----------

If everything goes wrong, well, it may still be an actual email address, so
try to email that address and mention that somebody is trying to subscribe to
them but can't seem to figure out how and that maybe they should respond and
give their possible friend some info on how they might successfully subscribe.



